# Loudspeaker_model
Loudspeaker is an electromechanical device which converts the electronic signal into sound through mechanical vibration. The basic components of an electrodynamic speaker. The voice coil receives the signal input from the amplifier. The coils are kept in the vicinity of magnet. Due to the electromagnetic effect in inductor, back emf gets induced in the coil. The electromagnetic power gets converted to a movement of the diaphragm which hits the air and creates sound wave proportional to the electrical signal input to the voice coil. The spider or suspension springs holds the diaphragm to the frame by creating a control torque. Otherwise, due to the electro-mechanical force created on the diaphragm, it would get detached from the loudspeaker.
The model has two processes i) electrical and ii) mechanical. First we shall develop the electrical model equation. The input electrical signal to the loudspeaker given by v(t). This is a sinusoidal input. We have to set the amplitude and frequency of this input during simulation. The source resistance is given by ‘b’ Ohm. Voice coil inductance is given by ‘L’ Henry. Due to coil movement, an emf of K.dy(t)/dt is induced in the voice coil. Direction of this emf is opposite to v(t) input, as per Lenz’s law. Hence this emf is called as back emf. ‘K’ is the proportionality constant of the back emf.
The electrical side equation of developed model is: v(t)=bi(t)+L di(t)/dt+ K dy(t)/dt. Now by rearranging the terms, taking highest order to the left side.
Output of the mechanical stage is coil displacement y(t). Mathematical model of the 2nd stage or mechanical system is given next. The diaphragm acceleration is given by y''(t)+a*y'(t)=K1*i(t) . Here, y''(t) depicts coil acceleration and y'(t) gives coil velocity. All these dynamics in coil is caused by i(t) which in turn is caused by v(t) input. Rearranging the model equation we get, y''(t)=K1*i(t)-a*y'(t).
K1 is the proportionality constant for conversion of electrical current i(t) into mechanical force. The constant ‘a’ is the resistance offered by the ‘spider’ against coil-diaphragm assembly movement. The term ‘a’ creates mechanical damping which enhances the stability of the mechanical system. For electrical system, term ‘b’ creates more damping and higher electrical system stability.
ASSUMPTIONS: L=1 (normalized), a=2, b=1, K=K1=2.5. The input v(t) is considered as 2sin(3t).
